---
author: Andrew
type: blog
date: -001-11-30T00:00:00+00:00
draft: true
aliases:
  - /?p=3031
spacious_page_layout:
  - default_layout
categories:
  - Uncategorized

---
##### Closure Syntax

We have the opportunity to be really, really cryptic when we work with closures.  Terse, concise, short, fewer keystrokes&#8230; yes.  But is terseness always worth it?  Are multiple lines of code really that bad?

The question I'm personally asking is not, &#8220;How many keystrokes can I _not_ type to build this?&#8221; but rather, &#8220;Should I really do this to myself?  Really?  Will I look at this later and immediately know what I meant by what I read, or am I going to regret this line of code, perhaps as soon as the next time I look at it?&#8221;

&nbsp;

##### Type Inferences

For simple cases, type inference works fine.  For example, compare:

<pre class="lang:swift decode:true" title="Type is inferred">var aVariable = "aString"</pre>

vs

<pre class="lang:swift decode:true" title="Type is explicitly declared">var aVariable: String = "aString"</pre>

In the example just presented, there is not much to be gained here by being explicit about the type of <span class="lang:swift decode:true  crayon-inline ">aVariable</span>  in its declaration.  _However_, there are situations where type inference becomes obscure, making the case for being explicit about the type in the declaration.  For example, perhaps I want to initialize the variable to the return value of a function.  Being explicit about the type in the declaration helps me a _lot_ when I return to this code later.

<pre class="lang:swift decode:true" title="Type is inferred">var aVariable = getValueFromFunction()</pre>

vs

<pre class="lang:swift decode:true" title="Type is explicitly declared">var aVariable: String = getValueFromFunction()</pre>

To me, there is value in the explicit declaration of <span class="lang:swift decode:true  crayon-inline  ">aVariable</span>&#8216;s type in the second case.  When I come back to this code later, _I_ would prefer to just look at the code as it is written and see what Type <span class="lang:swift decode:true crayon-inline">aVariable</span> is, rather than relying on XCode's &#8220;intellisense&#8221; to help me with that.  Anything to help me just see right there in front of me what something is or does is (for me) to be preferred over relying on the IDE for [option-click] tool-tips or the utilities panel's quick help.

##### Custom Operators

This is one of those areas that can be extremely powerful, but it can also lead us to the path of major confusion / obscure code if we fail to implement them with care.  I can see the use cases – Rob Napier's post titled, &#8220;<a title="Rob Napier's &quot;But Should I...Swift?&quot;" href="http://robnapier.net/should-i-swift" target="_blank">But Should I&#8230;Swift?</a>&#8221; opened my eyes to the fact that there are perhaps conventions around operators coming from other languages when he talked about the operators used in <a title="Chris Eidof's JSON Parser" href="http://chris.eidhof.nl/posts/json-parsing-in-swift.html" target="_blank">Chris Eidhof's JSON Parser</a>.

The obvious &#8220;problem&#8221; with custom operators is that they are _symbols_ – symbols, by definition, are representations or substitutes for a deeper meaning. Custom operators (symbols) carry with them the weight of requiring me to think harder than I might otherwise need to if I leave a code base for a while and come back to it, not having seen the custom operator in some time.  It would almost assuredly require an explanation to a newcomer to my code.  A well-named function is my current preference when conventions around custom operators do not exist.