---
author: Andrew
type: blog
date: -001-11-30T00:00:00+00:00
draft: true
aliases:
  - /?p=6161
categories:
  - Swift

---
Given that Objective-C and Swift interoperate, and that many APIs (both 3rd party and Cocoa) deal in terms of &#8216;NS'-prefixed classes, chances are, you'll end up with some of those NSClasses somewhere in your Swift code.

Some of those &#8216;NS'-prefixed classes work fairly seamlessly in Swift.  NSString, for example, can exist in a Swift array of Strings, side-by-side, with no problem:

<pre class="lang:swift decode:true ">let arrayOfNSString = ["orange", NSString(string: "Banana"), NSString(string: "Apple"), "grape", NSString(string: "pineapple")]</pre>

(side note) – The Swift compiler seems to infer the Type of the array to be whichever Type it contains the most of.  So if there are more NSStrings in the array, then the Type of the array is [NSString].  If there are more _Strings_, then the Type is [String].  The Type of the array just presented is indeed [NSString].

Now, here's a fun twist:  What if I wanted to use the sorted() global function provided by the Swift standard library to sort arrayOfNSString?  Furthermore, what if I wanted to do it using the most concise, terse syntax <a title="Apple Developer - Closure Syntax" href="https://developer.apple.com/library/ios/documentation/swift/conceptual/Swift_Programming_Language/Closures.html#//apple_ref/doc/uid/TP40014097-CH11-XID_151" target="_blank">as described in the language guide's &#8220;Operator Functions&#8221; section</a> (you know&#8230; just for fun)?  My implementation might look something like this:

<pre class="lang:swift decode:true">let sortedArrayOfNSString = sorted(arrayOfNSString, &lt;)</pre>

All well and good, except&#8230; well&#8230; it doesn't work.  Doing it this way gives a dev-time compiler error that says &#8220;&#8216;NSString' is not a subtype of &#8216;Character'&#8221;.

Here's the deal:  _Normally_, on an array of Swift _Strings_, the above code would compile just fine.  Why?  Because Swift Strings have a < operator that's implemented on them, and the operator signature, under the hood, matches the signature required by sorted()'s second argument (the second argument needs to be a **function** that **takes two elements** and **returns a Bool**)&#8230;

Ok then&#8230; So naturally, my next question was, &#8220;Can I give NSString a < operator??&#8221;

And in fact, you can.

&nbsp;

&nbsp;