---
author: Andrew
type: blog
date: -001-11-30T00:00:00+00:00
draft: true
aliases:
  - /?p=5611
categories:
  - Uncategorized

---
"[The gospel] is the power of God for salvation to everyone who believes&#8230;&#8221; – How precious and energizing the words of Romans 1:16 were to me as I read and reflected over the <a title="Solid Joys - God's Wise Mercy" href="http://solidjoys.desiringgod.org/en/devotionals/god-s-wise-mercy" target="_blank">Solid Joys devotion for October 9</a> a few weeks ago.

The gospel.  "Good news&#8221; as we'd say in modern vernacular.  Oh how easy it is to throw around the term "gospel&#8221; or even the meaning, "good news&#8221;, without truly knowing _why_ it's good news.  So I ask:  Why _is_ the gospel good news?

In comes the excerpt from <a title="Desiring God" href="http://www.desiringgod.org/books/desiring-god" target="_blank">Desiring God</a> which can be found at the previously mentioned devotion.  I found the excerpt very well-articulated and I commend it for your reading.

To summarize here:

God, in his infinite wisdom, has called into existence a way for his **love** to deliver sinners from his **wrath** without compromising his **justice**.

How? How has he done this?  The death and resurrection of the Son of God for sinners is the out-working of God's infinite wisdom in this matter.

If God is to remain just, he absolutely _cannot_ simply pardon sinners, ignore the realities of their sin, and sweep it under the rug.  In so doing he would be declaring that his glory is not to be valued more than silver and gold; that his worth is so small that he allows it to be trampled on without consequence.

The death of Jesus _on behalf of sinners_ is how God has designed for his worth to be upheld, _and_ for there to be a justifiable way to pardon the sin of even the most heinous of his creations.  And the resurrection of Jesus is proof that the Father has accepted the ransom price of his Son's blood for sinners.

<p style="color: #525252;">
  The death of Christ is the wisdom of God by which the love of God saves sinners from the wrath of God, all the while upholding and demonstrating the righteousness of God in Christ.&#8221;
</p>