---
title: Nomadic Monadic Musings
author: Andrew
type: blog
date: -001-11-30T00:00:00+00:00
draft: true
url: /?p=12428
categories:
  - Swift
tags:
  - Functional Programming
  - Swift

---
I consider myself a nomad of sorts. I love Swift, and I love that there are characteristics of the language that lend themselves well to the functional programming paradigm&#8230;

However, I have not arrived at full functional programming competence. I'm on the _journey_.

Each re-introduction to a topic tends to take me deeper into understanding through repetition and through inspection from different angles from different developers in the field. My hope is that the musings in this article help others that can't quite figure out how the ever-so-mysterious monad works.

In the Pluralsight course, "JavaScript the Good Parts&#8221;, Douglass Crockford expounded upon monads in a way that I hadn't heard before. I took what he unpacked and tried to re-implement some of the ideas in a Swift playground&#8230;

Core Insights:

### Monads are "expressed&#8221;

That's pretty much the statement right there. Monads are "expressed&#8221;. And certain languages have the ability to express them better than others. Turns out that Swift is pretty good at it (just like JavaScript is)!

### Monads are "objects&#8221;

Another thing Crockford said is this:

> A monad is an object 

Now, what needs to be clarified about this is that monads are also _functions_, and in languages where functions are first-class citizens that can be stored and passed as arguments, etc. (like JavaScript and _Swift_), monads _are_ "objects&#8221; because _functions_ are "objects&#8221;.

In Swift, we have Types and instances of those Types – we try and avoid the word "object&#8221; because that term carries a lot of connotations from other Object-Oriented languages that deal heavily with the relationship between objects and _classes_. Since in Swift we can also create instances of Structs and Enums, we prefer the term "instance&#8221; to describe what gets allocated for us to work with instead.

Now as it turns out, _functions_ in Swift [_also_ express a form of Type][1]:

> Every function in Swift has a type, consisting of the function’s parameter types and return type. You can use this type like any other type in Swift, which makes it easy to pass functions as parameters to other functions, and to return functions from functions. Functions can also be written within other functions to encapsulate useful functionality within a nested function scope. 

Note that the documentation does not say that functions _are_ a Type&#8230; rather, it says that functions _have_ a Type. But it certainly brings out the fact that functions are powerful building blocks that we can think of as more than just "subroutines&#8221;.

What I see here is a similarity in how Crockford explained monads in JavaScript. They're simply "objects&#8221; or "things&#8221; that possess certain properties that we can exploit to compose functions together.

### Syntax simplification

A lot of times, we'll monads expressed in terms of functions dealing with other functions producing functions as return values. It's mind-boggling.

One key insight for me was how Crockford transformed the syntax.

Consider

 [1]: https://developer.apple.com/library/mac/documentation/Swift/Conceptual/Swift_Programming_Language/Functions.html